

Standard .oafinfo file attributes. 

Not all components must specify all of these, but if they are present
they ought to have these standardized meanings. A component should
specify at least "repo_ids", "name" and "description" to be useful.

Other attributes should be placed in a colon-separated namespace.


General

* "repo_ids" (stringv) - all the IDL interfaces this component
  implements, including inherited interfaces. If Bonobo::Unknown is
  one of the interfaces, this should include all interfaces that can
  be query_interface()d for.  Fake interfaces like
  IDL:BonoboControl/text-plain:1.0 should _not_ be included. If this
  attribute is omitted, the object will be assuemd to support no IDL
  interfaces, which makes no sense.

* "description" (string) - a free text description of the component,
  much like the gnorba description field. If omitted, the "name"
  attribute will be used, if present, otherwise the empty string.

* "name" (string) - a short name suitable for display to the end user,
  e.g. in a menu. If omitted, the "description" attribute will be
  used, if present, otherwise the iid.


Bonobo

* "bonobo:editable" (boolean) - does this component allow editing of
  its contents? If omitted, assumed false or not applicable.

* "bonobo:supported_mime_types" (stringv) - a list of mime types this
  component understands as input. In addition to specific mime types,
  it is possible to include supertypes (e.g. "image/*" or "text/*") or
  "*/*" to indicate the component can display any mime
  type. Specifying "*/*" is only necessary if "supported_uri_schemes"
  is not specified, otherwise it is assumed. This only really makes
  sense if the component implements one of the following interfaces:
  Bonobo::PersistStream, Bonobo::ProgressiveDataSink, Nautilus::View.

* "bonobo:supported_uri_schemes" (stringv) - a list of protocols this
  component knows how to handle. This only really makes sense if the
  component implements one of the following interfaces:
  Bonobo::PersistFile or Nautilus::View

  If "bonobo:supported_uri_schemes" is specified but
"bonobo:supported_mime_types" is not, it is assumed the component can
handle any type of data that might come via that protocol. Some
schemes may not even have an associated mime type for any given URI,
for instance irc: or news:

  If "bonobo:supported_mime_types" is specified but
"bonobo:supported_uri_schemes" is not, the component is assumed to be
able to handle all common URI schemes (possible definition: anything
gnome-vfs can handle).

  If neither "bonobo:supported_uri_schemes" nor
"bonobo:supported_mime_types" is specified, it is assumed the
component cannot handle any data at all in a general way and should
never be generically selected for such purposes.


Nautilus - Content Views

* "nautilus:view_as_name" (string) - a suitable name for use as a view
as name (it will be displayed as "View as <foo>" where <foo> is the
name). This must be implemented by any Bonobo Embeddables
or Controls that can be used as Nautilus views (for the content in
the main window, not in the sidebar).

* "nautilus:view_as_label" (string) - A string generally of the form
"View as <view_as_name>". This is easier for translators to handle
than composed strings. It also allows changes to that text, like "View
with <foo>" rather than "View as <foo>".

* "nautilus:viewer_label" (string) - A string generally of the form
"<view_as_name> Viewer". This is easier for translators to handle
than composed strings.


I am not totally sure if the following two should be in the nautilus:
or bonobo: namespace; I can see them being useful for other components
at least in theory. Leaving as "nautilus:" attributes for now.

* "nautilus:required_directory_content_mime_types" (stringv) - if the
component is to be activated on a URI with mime type
special/directory, it is only really applicable if the directory
contains one of these mime types. As before, supertypes like "audio/*"
are allowed. If this attribute is omitted, "*/*" is assumed.

* "nautilus:required_uri_tester" (string) - this specifies the OAFIID
of a component that implements the Nautilus::URITester interface (see
proposal below). If the criteria established by all the other
attributes are satisfied, an object with that OAFIID should be
activated and its is_applicable() method should be called on the URI
to test if it this component _really_, _really_ applies to the given
URI. This should be used as a last resort. (Not yet implemented.)

The reason for the "required_uri_tester" attribute is as follows. In
Nautilus, we plan to have custom directory views that express
higher-level semantics about certain directories, but that depend
heavily on the directory contents. For example, there maybe "View as
Version Controlled Directory" or the like which depends on their being
a directory named "CVS/" in the appropriate directory. So in the most
general case, we need to run some code specific to the component to
make sure it is applicable to a given URI. Now, we could just activate
the component, require it to have the URITester interface, do the
test, and then destroy it to find out if it applies. But that might be
quite heavyweight. So intead we specify the OAFIID of a different
component, one which could be very lightweight (shlib or minimal exe
that does not pull gnome/gtk stuff) which does the test and nothing
else.

If this attribute is not provided, no such testing is assumed
necessary.


Nautilus - Sidebar Views:

* "nautilus:sidebar_panel_name" (string) - a suitable name for use as
a sidebar panel label name. This must be implemented by any Bonobo
Controls that can be used as a Nautilus sidebar view.

* "nautilus:recommended_uri_schemes" (string) - the URI schemes this
meta view is most recommended for. If "*" is included, this component
is recommended for all schemes. If omitted or empty, it is not
recommended for any. (Not yet implemented.)


Vertigo:

* "vertigo:category" - the name of the category a panel applet falls
  into, for purposes of generating the menu.


General open questions

* How does Bonobo::PersistStorage play into this?

* An "icon" attribute has been proposed for component browser/selector
  purposes. If included it would have to be inline probably
  (base64-encoded png?) since the oafinfo file may not be on the same
  machine as the code doing the browsing or activation.

* How to specify interesting info about applicable components when
  there is no relevant URI? For instance a regular dumb control, or
  something like the gnomines control where there is no relevant
  type. Maybe you only ever want to pick these off a list or activate
  a specific one by IID. Maybe controls that want to be activatable in
  nautilus somehow can just register their own URI scheme, for
  instance `gnome-control-mines:' for the gnomines thing. This seems
  like kind of a hack though.

* Should "description" and the various name attributes be
  internationalized? If so, how? should there be other attributes with
  names like "description_${LANG}"? Someone proposed using
  lang="de"/lang="ru" in the XML tag.

Nautilus-specific open questions

* Should there be a way to use a Bonobo Control or Embeddable with
  Nautilus without requiring the developer to include a definition
  for "nautilus:sidebar_panel_name" or "nautilus:view_as_name"?

* Should the user level of a component be an attribute? That lets just
  any component author set the user level instead of centralizing it.

==================

module Nautilus {
        interface URITester {
                boolean is_applicable (string uri);
        }
}
