.TH SCROLLKEEPER-UPDATE 8 "Feb 16, 2001" "scrollkeeper"
.SH NAME
scrollkeeper-update \- identify new, modified, or removed OMF 
files and update the scrollkeeper databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "scrollkeeper-update"
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-p
.I database-directory
]
[
.B \-o
.I omf-directories
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This synchronizes the scrollkeeper database with the OMF directory.  
It searches the scrollkeeper OMF directory to identify if any files 
were added, removed, or modified and updates its internal database
files to reflect any changes.  
.LP
This utility is generally executed as the last step of installation, 
after the OMF file is copied into place.  It is also typically the
last step of uninstallation, after the OMF file is removed.  Using this,
an administrator can easily manually install and uninstall documents
into the database.  It can also be run to guarantee the database is
fully up-to-date.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose:
Say which
.B scrollkeeper-install
and
.B scrollkeeper-uninstall
commands are being run to bring the database up to date.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP \fIdatabase-directory\fP 
Use \fIdatabase-directory\fP as the directory for the scrollkeeper database
rather than the usual one obtained by running
.B omf-config
.BR \-\-pkglocalstatedir .
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIomf-directories\fP
Examine the directories named in
.I omf-directories
rather than the one usual one obtained by running
.B scrollkeeper-config
.BR \-\-omfdir .
The
.I omf-directories
can be a colon-separated list of directories.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SM OMF_DIR
If no
.B \-o
option is specified,
this variable overrides the
.BR scrollkeeper-config -provided
OMF directory.
It too can be a colon-separated list of directories.
.SH AUTHOR
Laszlo Kovacs and Dan Mueth.
.SH SEE ALSO
scrollkeeper-rebuilddb(8), scrollkeeper-preinstall(8), scrollkeeper-config(8)
